Support multiple loadbalancers for upcloud environments (#411)
elastisys/compliantkubernetes-kubespray: migration/v2.27/README.md

> # Upgrade ${old_version} to ${new_version}

Reviewer: https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-kubespray/pull/411/commits/60de3aea20f7b7cf1a00a756a8b3fcfd7833d337

> # Upgrade ${old_version} to ${new_version}

Reviewer: https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-kubespray/pull/411/commits/7bf49bda45223c1c7bf4e6f423fa7b71732de1c6

    ./compliantkubernetes-apps/bin/ck8s ops kubectl sc|wc get jobs -A
    velero get backup
    ```

- [ ] Silence the notifications for the alerts. e.g you can use [alertmanager silences](https://prometheus.io/docs/alerting/latest/alertmanager/#silences);

## Steps that can be done before the upgrade - non-disruptive

1. Checkout the new release: `git switch -d ${full_version}`

1. Switch to the correct remote: `git submodule sync`

1. Update the kubespray submodule: `git submodule update --init --recursive`

1. Run `bin/ck8s-kubespray upgrade both ${new_version} prepare` to update your config.

    > [!NOTE]
    > It is possible to update `wc` and `sc` config separately by replacing `both` when running the `upgrade` command, e.g. the following will only update config for the workload cluster:
    >
    > ```bash
    > bin/ck8s-kubespray upgrade wc ${new_version} prepare
    > ```

1. Download the required files on the nodes

    ```bash
    ./bin/ck8s-kubespray run-playbook sc upgrade_cluster.yml -b --tags=download
    ./bin/ck8s-kubespray run-playbook wc upgrade_cluster.yml -b --tags=download
    ```

## Upgrade steps

These steps will cause disruptions in the environment.

> 1. For UpCloud environments, update loadbalancer configuration

Reviewer 2: Will this cause disruptions in the environment to update the terraform state for the LBs?

Reviewer: Nope, without this migration it would be disruptive (LB recreation) But this fixes that so that it's trasparent

Reviewer 2: Okay, so it can be moved to the non-disruptive section?

Reviewer: https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-kubespray/pull/411/commits/a3b38d41b7fe13903018303b409450ce2f6a52ba

    <details>
    <summary>UpCloud environments only</summary>

    It is now possible to create multiple loadbalancers. Even if you are just going to use one loadbalancer, this config update is still needed.

>     Update the loadbalancer to match the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Update the loadbalancer in accordance to the following diff:
```

    ```diff

>     - loadbalancer_legacy_network = false
>     - loadbalancer_plan = "development"
>       loadbalancers = {
>     +   "public" = {
>     +     plan = "development"
>     +     legacy_network = false

Reviewer 2: Not sure how to best convey that the diff should not be copied verbatim but that the values of the environment should be used. 
```suggestion
    - loadbalancer_legacy_network = ...
    - loadbalancer_plan = ...
      loadbalancers = {
    +   "public" = {
    +     plan = <the value from loadbalancer_plan>
    +     legacy_network = <the value from loadbalancer_legacy_network>
```

Reviewer: https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-kubespray/pull/411/commits/3725b4d0e594546a108c43e8d1effbe1f9ed2930

    +     targets = {
            "http" : {
              "proxy_protocol" : false,
              "port" : 80,
              "target_port" : 80,
    +         "listen_public" : true
    +         "listen_private" : false
              "backend_servers" : [
                "worker-0",
              ]
            },
            "https" : {
              "proxy_protocol" : false,
              "port" : 443,
              "target_port" : 443,
    +         "listen_public" : true
    +         "listen_private" : false
              "backend_servers" : [
                "worker-0",
              ]
            },
            "master-api" : {
              "proxy_protocol" : false,
              "port" : 6443,
              "target_port" : 6443,
    +         "listen_public" : true
    +         "listen_private" : false
              "backend_servers" : [
                "control-plane-1",
              ]
            }
          }
        },
    + }
    ```

    The migration script will ask for the loadbalancer name.
    That is the name in the previous config update, `public` or what you specified.

    ```bash
    export CK8S_CONFIG_PATH=...
    export CK8S_CLUSTER=<sc|wc|both>

>     00-migrate-loadbalancers.sh

Reviewer: https://github.com/elastisys/compliantkubernetes-kubespray/pull/411/commits/be0c8247a710348b1b161eaa053d6728e36fc84d
